# Guideline

## Env setup

1. Unzip the source code to anywhere in you computer.
2. Open a terminal session, navigate to `~(location of unzipped directory)/src/`
3. (Optional) run `javac Server/ServerApp.java Client/ClientApp.java`

## Start server/client

1. Start server: run `java Server.ServerApp <port#> <protocol>`. Replace the `<port#>` and `<protocol>` as you like. Protocol should either be TCP or UDP literally.
2. Start client: run `java Client.ClientApp <host> <port#> <protocol>`. `host`should be the host name or IP address of computer the server's running in the last step. Use `localhost` if it's running locally. 
3. Port number and protocol should be the same as server.

## Use client to communicate with server 

The client will pre-populate some data at the very beginning. Then in the infinite loop it will pop to instruct how to manipulate.
You can type `1`, `2` or `3` to choose operation from `PUT`, `GET` and `DELETE` respectively. Then following the instruction on the terminal to provide the key and value to look up.
The client will display the result of query from server in the console. 
You can check out the log file later for more info. 

To close both processes, press `q` for client, the server will run forever until `ctrl-c` pressed.

## Check out the log

In root directory that running the server and client (shoud be `~/src`) you should be able to see a directory named `/logs`.
Here lies the log files generated by server and client. Millisecond timestamp are in the log files and will **not** display on the console.
